# Channel Factory Detailed Response

## Page 1

1. Methodology  Channel Factory is a global technology and data platform that maximizes both performance efficiency and contextual suitability, delivering contextual performance for advertisers on YouTube. Channel Factory's technology platform, ViewIQ, analyzes all YouTube channels and videos to ensure ads run on brand suitable and contextually relevant content. Channel Factory's core offering is to build Brand Suitable YouTube Channel Inclusion Lists for clients. We are the preferred YouTube partner for several global holding companies and are KidSafe COPPA certified (https://www.kidsafeseal.com/certifiedproducts/channelfactory_vendor.html)  We are built on YouTube's foundation (YouTube is MRC accredited for Brand Safety, follow 4As/GARM, and have their own internal policy: https://blog.youtube/inside-youtube/the-four-rs-of-responsibility-remove/  YouTube also has Community Guidelines for Channel Creators to monetize their channels, so harmful content is not monetized: https://www.youtube.com/howyoutubeworks/policies/community-guidelines/)  After data is collected and reviewed, we provide a suitability ranking in 4 levels: Unsuitable, Low Suitable, Medium Suitable, and Suitable (this is based on parameters including but not limited to volume and location of where the risk occurs...e.g. "ass" detected once is less severe than "f*** detected multiple times). We go a level deeper and analyze the metadata from videos and channels (including audio transcripts, titles, descriptions, tags, channel names and bios). We ensure the data is vetted against 150,000+ blocked keywords across 49+ languages. This data is created and maintained by local languages experts who additionally will vet and recategorize into IAB Tier 1 and Tier 2 categories.    From there, we are able to ensure that channels that clients choose to run on are suitable and safe for their brand, promoting respect and protecting the user.     2. Technological processes behind ViewIQ  Our unique offering is detailed below:  • Our ViewIQ technology retrieves videos, scans, ingests, and evaluates data from YouTube each hour.   • To date, we track ~500M videos and ~3M channels across YouTube (representative of the majority of monetizable content). Once data is retrieved, we typically assign a level to a new channel and its videos within 24 to 48 hours. Additionally, all already tracked channels are refreshed constantly and always stay refreshed within a 30-day window. After data is collected and reviewed, we provide a suitability ranking in 4 levels: Unsuitable, Low Suitable, Medium Suitable, and Suitable.  • We analyze the metadata from videos and channels, this includes audio transcriptions, titles, descriptions, tags, channel names, and bios  • Vet the data against 150,000 blocked keywords across 49+ languages  • The data is created and maintained by local language experts and human-vetted and recategorized into IAB Tier 1 and 2 Categories 

## Page 2

 • The channel data is aligned with 4A’s brand safety categorizations (https://www.aaaa.org/index.php?checkfileaccess=/wp-content/uploads/2020/05/4As_GARM-BRAND-SAFETY-FLOOR-FRAMEWORK-REVISED -2020.pdf)  • From there, we are able to ensure that channels that clients choose to run on are Suitable and Safe for their Brand, promoting respect and protecting the user.  When a client is ready to run a campaign with us, they are sent a Brand Suitability survey to fill out with various campaign parameters about what type of content they want to be in:  • From there, we use our channel and video data in ViewIQ (inclusive of historical campaigns performance and data available in Google Ads API) to build content that matches the client's needs (when we are building a list, we can also add in the client’s requested exclusions)  • We have a minimum threshold for including a channel on our clients' lists: 90% sentiment rating (ratio of likes to overall likes/dislikes) and subscriber count over 5,000  • Our team reviews the Inclusion List for ensured suitability of the content  • Since this list is fully transparent clients will know exactly where their ads are placed, pre-bid  • From there, we are able to ensure that channels that clients choose to run on are suitable and safe for their brand, promoting respect and protecting the user  • In addition to using a client’s requested exclusions as parameters while we build an Inclusion List, we can still also layer these exclusion lists (KWs, YouTube Channels, YouTube Videos, Topics, etc.) in Google Ads/DV360 to further prevent ads running in content that may not be suitable for clients (for example, a luxury fashion brand may want to be on fashion channels but be extra safe during campaign execution by blocking any KWs around "bargain hauls" in case a channel makes a video about bargain hauls post-launch)  • If a negative event happens (e.g. a news event), our Account Managers and broader team coordinate to update any exclusion lists (placements or KWs) with extreme urgency  Our technology platform, ViewIQ, is always made better with feedback from our clients:   • We can customize each client's dashboard specific to their needs, and we can develop specific exporting or research requirements for our Brands and HoldCos (e.g. exporting campaign data to Datorama, curating our Chrome Extension upload tool, and updating our auto-optimization tool "Review")  • Transparency, communication, and service are key in continually building the best global platform for clients' YouTube contextual suitability and performance needs  •  As part of the YTMP partnership we have integrations with the following APIs: YouTube, Google Ads, Google Analytics, DV360, and YouTube Channel OAuths for creators who opt in, allowing us to have the deepest YouTube dataset in the marketplace. We pull data from YouTube’s API up to 500 million times daily to create a large database. This includes data such as subscribers, categories, descriptions, and titles. Once collected, we currently use machine learning algorithms to review YouTube data and determine the items such as language make-up or suitability of videos and, at a later date, sentiment. This enables Channel Factory teams and clients to quickly apply campaign target segments to build a refined list of channels and/or videos on YouTube  • Our technology is primarily designed to solve and process complex problems, as we go further to build an AI that supports decision-making for our team and clients (including developing alpha and beta products for clients that can scale for years to come)     

## Page 3

3. Use of Al & machine learning   We leverage ViewIQ, (our AdTech system) that is built on the GARM standards of brand safety. We go a level deeper and recategorize the data to align with the client's contextual alignment, language criteria, and historical performance, which all can be pulled without cookies. Along with our algorithms and technology, we add a layer of human vetting to ensure that all channels/video URLs are brand relevant/suitable for the client. Our technology is constantly evolving and will continue to be more efficient.   4.  Use of humans to regulate any discriminative simplifications caused by an AI  Content is vetted via both tech algorithms and an additional layer of Human QA. Once data is retrieved, we typically assign a suitability level to a new channel and its videos within 24-48 hours. Additionally, all already tracked channels are refreshed constantly and always stay refreshed within a 30-day window. After data is collected and review, we provide a suitability ranking in 4 levels: Unsuitable, Low Suitable, Medium Suitable, and Suitable. We go a level deeper and analyze the metadata from videos and channels (including audio transcripts, titles, descriptions, tags, channel names and bios). We ensure the data is vetted against 150,000+ blocked keywords across 49+ languages. This data is created and maintained by local languages experts who additionally will vet and recategorize into IAB Tier 1 and Tier 2 categories.    From there, we are able to ensure that channels that clients choose to run on are Suitable and Safe for their Brand, promoting respect and protecting the user.     5. Our USP's and proprietary capabilities that set us apart (the PWC report would be nice to include in this)  Promoting Conscious Advertising is a core tenet of Channel Factory - this is why we started The Conscious Project (https://channelfactory.com/consumer-sentiment-and-conscious-advertising/) mission... We believe the media can be a force for good, and that by shining a light on the positivity in the world with happy stories, human interactions, important issues, real journalism etc. we can start to heal. Channel Factory has a multi-faceted approach to spreading positivity: from reviewing our platform with a human lens into diversity & inclusion, to ensuring we are monetizing more positive content across the web, to investing in diverse voices.     ENSURE WE ARE NOT EXCLUDING As part of our initial effort to create an inclusive media approach, we conducted an audit of our platform in 49 different languages, using native language vetters and a committee of trusted peers. The goal was to ensure that we were not inadvertently excluding words, phrases or languages that could leave out certain groups, and make changes where appropriate.  BUILD INCLUSIVITY & REPRESENTATION INTO OUR APPROACH 

## Page 4

We began to create more thoughtful and diverse targeting strategies made up of channels and conversations that highlight certain voices like LGBTQ+, Black creators, LatinX creators, etc to ensure that ALL voices are represented in each campaign we create, not just some.  FUND CONSCIOUS CONTENT (NEWS, CLIMATE, HEALTH, DIVERSITY, AND MORE) Our commitment to The Conscious Project is our promised effort contributing to a more conscious world. This means shining a light on positive, deliberate content that moves the world forward. This might include content that makes people feel good, or content that highlights important issues and stories, like journalism and news.  WHAT'S NEXT? Channel Factory is creating tech and human vetting solutions to ensure our processes are unbiased and inclusive, and offering opportunities for brands to leverage our diverse targeting capabilities.  WHAT'S NEXT FOR ADVERTISERS? Channel Factory is asking the media industry to adopt The Conscious Project, by taking the Conscious Advertising pledge, and implementing changes to lead to a more positive and inclusive content ecosystem. Support brands and agencies by offering to review their blocklists and inclusion lists for free.     1. Review block lists to ensure they are not inherently biased   2. Support inclusive targeting strategies reaching Black, LGBTQ+, API, Hispanic creators and communities (and Authoritative Sources of News, Science, Health etc.)  3. Create a diverse Conscious Board consisting of brands, agencies, nonprofits to help tackle key issues   As part of our “Conscious Project”, we are able to offer “Conscious Voices” YouTube Channel Inclusion List packages. Channel Factory has specifically curated brand safe and suitable Contextual + Audience segments for clients to tap into, featuring Creators, Communities, and Conversations across BAME LatinX, LGBTQ+, Black, and AAPI audiences, supporting diverse voices and spreading positivity. Clients can rest assured that these segments have been curated in the most ethical way to align with Google’s privacy parameters. Advertising dollars spent on Channel Factory "Conscious Voices" Lists contribute to initiatives for investing on inclusive media (both by running advertising on YouTube Channel Creators and running with Channel Factory as a minority-owned business).  Ensure block lists don’t over block: Our first step in creating an inclusive approach to media included an audit of our platform in +49 languages to ensure that we were not inadvertently excluding words, phrases or languages that could leave out certain groups. Through a committee of our peers including native language vetters, we reviewed each list to ensure we were not using excluding any one group inadvertently, and made changes where needed. Industry standard advertising practices can unfairly penalize content creators within various groups, including the LGBTQ+, BAME, Indigenous, BIPOC and API communities, as well as content relating to important aspects of the human experience, including social issues, mental health and wellness and identity. Words like ‘lesbian’ or ‘hip hop’ that appear on block lists marginalize creators by reducing their monetization ability. For example, a recent study we did found that 93% of videos created by LGBTQ+ creators were deemed unsuitable.  Inclusion List Background: Inclusion lists that are used to create creator ‘lineups’ on YouTube can be extremely helpful and high-performing for brands. But having inclusion lists that feature creators from all walks of life are important. Inclusion lists are often not inclusive, and we are changing that by creating lists that feature marginalized 

## Page 5

creators and communities. After being asked by many partners, we began to create diverse targeting strategies made up of channels and conversations that highlight certain voices like LGBTQ+, Black creators, Hispanic creators, etc. Part of this process includes working with external organizations like Racial Justice Institute GLAAD, Conscious Advertising Network and via crowdsourcing to build lists that are both inclusive and vetted by members of those communities. This is an ongoing process that will continue through 2022 and beyond.  We have been creating these targeting groups for other large advertisers and testing them against the audiences for months to refine our approach and ensure it is inclusive. For example, for our Black creator list, we are incorporating Black creators & communities - ensuring that topics that the Black community are discussing on YouTube are included in our targeting strategy.     6. PWC Verification   Channel Factory invited an independent review from PwC to evaluate its technology, ensuring that it delivers efficiency to brands and agencies, and saves money as a result of quality ad placement. Across a two-phase review, Channel Factory sought to prove their technology is part of the solution to media wastage, and that they are transparent with all customers, existing or prospective.  Phase 1: Evaluated how Channel Factory classifies content to ensure it is aligned with organizations like GARM and IAB Phase 2: Measured the impact of Channel Factory’s technology on media wastage to identify how much efficiency it delivers for brands and agencies  Phase 1 Findings: Channel Factory proprietary tech provides - • 99% language classification & categorization accuracy • 100% content categorization accuracy at the channel level and 96% accuracy at the video level • 80% match rate of taxonomy of video content suitability categorization according to IAS, IAB, Comscore and GARM • ViewIQ has 100% brand suitability score, language and category classification abiding by our 30 days data refresh policy  Phase 2 Findings: Channel Factory reduces media wastage & provides cost savings – • 23% reduction in media wastage • 12% Channel Factory technology generates cost savings up to 12%  According to eMarketer, in the U.S. alone, digital video ad spending in 2022 was at $76.2 billion across all ad sectors. The potential cost savings by using Channel Factory technology is $8.7 billion dollars just in the U.S. in a single year. 

